[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>LEISA PETERSON: We're
telling people lies.
We were telling them that
just because your money looks
one way today, that's going
to be the rest of your life.
>>GEORGE NOORY: I want
you to give me a test.
>>PETERSON: If your wife cheated
on you, would you forgive her?
A good friend lied to you
about something important.
If someone murdered
your parent--
>>NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Leisa Peterson is a wealth
coach, author, and founder
of the Wealth Clinic.
Now she helps people elevate
their financial consciousness
by realizing their
very true value
and creating financial
security for themselves.
That's a pretty good gift
that you have, Leisa.
Welcome to the program.
>>PETERSON: Thank you, George.
I'm so happy to be here.
>>NOORY: How did you
get involved in doing
all of this for people?
>>PETERSON: I have worked
in the financial services
business for 30 years.
And every time I
worked with people,
I noticed that they would
be telling me something
very practical about
money, and I was also
feeling their energy.
And often that energy
was very fear oriented.
And it just caused me
to be super curious.
What's going on under
the surface of somebody's
relationship with money?
>>NOORY: Why does
somebody need a helper?
>>PETERSON: Great question.
I think it's because we don't
realize the fear that we're
holding on to.
And one of the places that
fear comes out is with money.
And so it's really
hard to know, right?
It's just like your hand
right in front of your face.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>PETERSON: You can't see it.
And until someone brings
it to your attention,
you might not realize that
you're living a certain way,
yet there's so much
more potential for you.
>>NOORY: There is a phrase
called "scarcity mindset."
What does that mean?
>>PETERSON: Yeah,
it's a great question.
I think that it's
different for everybody.
The way I define it is a
zero-sum paradigm of life.
Meaning it's like we
treat life like it's a pie
and there's eight pieces.
And once the pieces are gone,
then there's nothing left.
So it's this idea of
there's not enough.
There's never enough.
I have found that not only
does that apply for the things
that we--
money, and supplies, or
resources, or toilet paper,
it also applies to how
we feel about ourselves
not being enough.
>>NOORY: Should we be balancing
this in order to have enough?
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
And maybe explain your question.
>>NOORY: Well let's say you chop
up this pie into eight pieces
like you just said and
all the pieces are gone.
How do you do it and keep
a piece or two in reserve?
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
Well that's the funny
thing is that it
isn't as simple as that.
And probably it is helpful to
talk about just the research
about scarcity.
This isn't just something
that we're making up.
There's been a lot
of research that
says that when we're living
with a scarcity mindset
or we feel like
there isn't enough,
we actually have a loss in IQ of
up to 14 points in that moment.
So it literally causes
us to tunnel our vision.
So instead of thinking
about all the possibilities
that are available
to us, we only
see a very small
portion of the options.
And so back to the pie.
We're treating life like a pie,
but in reality the potential
is limitless.
There's always tons of options.
But when we go to
a financial advisor
and they tell us that we don't
have enough money to retire,
we believe that.
And we shut down all
the other possibilities.
And that was one of
the problems that I
had working in the
business is I felt like we
were telling people lies.
We were telling them that
just because your money looks
one way today that's going
to be the rest of your life.
And that's simply not true.
>>NOORY: And it's a
shocking not true,
isn't it for a lot of people?
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
Totally.
Especially right now.
>>NOORY: Why retire
if you don't have to?
>>PETERSON: Yeah,
great question.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
I plan to just keep
going until Tommy
comes back from a commercial
and says he's gone.
He's left us.
Why retire?
>>PETERSON: I agree.
I can't imagine life--
I love work.
I love making a
contribution and being
in service of other people.
I think that retirement,
with some idea
that maybe the financial
services came up with,
and we all just
said, OK, I guess
that's what we're
supposed to do.
But I think it also
has to do with the fact
that a lot of times,
people take jobs
and they work in jobs for their
whole life that aren't jobs
that they love.
And they can't wait
to get out of it.
>>NOORY: Lots of unhappy
people out there.
Lots of them.
Gaia's "Missing Links"
program with Gregg Braden,
he discusses how we have been in
this model of fear and scarcity
for a long time.
Let's take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Now the current standard
model, it's based on a story
that you and I have been
steeped in from the time
that we were born.
It's the story of
Western civilization.
It is a story based upon
separation, competition,
conflict, struggle, scarcity.
It's the sterile sounding
story of a dead universe,
of random mutations
that just happened
as a result of just the
right conditions converging
at just the right time
in just the right way,
requiring a series of events
that are so lucky that even
scientists say it
takes an act of faith
to believe the story
that we're being told.
Well there's a new standard
model that's emerging.
It has to.
Because the evidence, the
science-based evidence
no longer supports
the scientific story,
the existing model.
In the new standard model,
it's a very different story.
It's the story of a
universe that is alive.
It's vibrant.
It's a story of a universe
where life is the rule rather
than the rare exception.
It's a story that creates a
model based upon cooperation,
not competition, upon
abundance, not scarcity,
upon mutual aid and
self-empowerment
through self-regulation.
And I want to stop right here
and just be very, very clear.
That is what this
series is all about.
You are learning about
your relationship
to the divine matrix.
You're learning about
your relationship
to the field that not
only connects all things,
it's the field that
makes you who you are.
You are emerging constantly.
Quanta is reemerging,
and reemerging,
and reemerging as the atoms
of your body from this field.
This is such a powerful
concept that we're not
separate from the field.
It is within us.
It is emerging as us.
And because we are part of,
rather than separate from, we
are given the ability
to self-regulate
how we relate to this field.
And we've just seen that
we're wired to do this.
Our biology is actually
designed perfectly
for specifically and exactly
this kind of self-regulation.
So the evidence that supports
these discoveries they're
telling us a new human story.
And I have to tell you
it is a beautiful story.
It is a powerful story.
It's a story of hope.
It's a story of
possibility based
in rock solid evidence
of the new science
and the new discoveries.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Now Leisa, Gregg's
always an upbeat kind of guy.
But he did drop the
scarcity word there.
What did you think of that?
>>PETERSON: He did.
I love what he's talking about.
I love just feeling into
the possibility of what
we can create for ourselves.
And I think that's what is
really resonating in the work
that I do and what he's saying.
>>NOORY: Do you teach people
to control their own destiny?
>>PETERSON: Yes.
But I like to think of it as
being the creator of the life
that they want to live.
I did not understand
that for much of my life.
I thought that you
worked really hard,
and you worked your way up.
And you followed the rules
to get to a certain place.
And I thought that
that was creating.
But what I have
since come to see
is that when we're playing
life by other people's rules,
we're really not creating what's
going to make us most happy.
>>NOORY: When events occur in
our lives, traumas, pandemics,
wars, health issues,
people that we care about
die, how does that affect our
ability to form our future?
What happens?
>>PETERSON: When
we face challenges
is what I'm hearing you say?
>>NOORY: Every day, every day.
>>PETERSON: Every day
we face challenges.
I feel like they're
presenting us with a choice.
Are we going to feel like a
victim to those challenges?
Or are we going to see those
challenges as opportunities
to grow and expand into
something more than just
being constantly given a
challenge after challenge
after challenge?
Because those challenges
don't ever go away.
It's what you're
going to do with them.
>>NOORY: Give us
some examples of how
this scarcity mindset
has affected some people
throughout the ages.
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
So scarcity leads
people to think that we
need to compete for resources.
I mean, even just recently,
what happened with toilet paper.
It's a perfect example.
>>NOORY: Poof.
I'm not sure I should use that
word "poof," but it's gone.
>>PETERSON: Yeah, yeah.
I mean it was a great
example of scarcity mindset.
Once you found out that
toilet paper was all gone,
what happens to
us as human beings
is it's not just toilet paper.
All of a sudden, we
start thinking, well,
what about that?
Like what about food?
What about something
else that I need?
We kind of can't regulate.
Just what he was saying just
now was we lose the ability
to self-regulate in the moment.
And we just think
the whole world
is falling apart, because
there isn't any toilet paper.
And that's what happens.
It's like a snowball.
It just keeps growing
and growing in our head.
>>NOORY: I would go to
the grocery store just
to look at the empty
shelves because it
was fascinating for me
to see this, you know?
Because I'm thinking
this scarcity mindset,
why is this happening?
What does it look like?
And then when I walked
through the store
and look at the aisles and you
see these empty shelves where
paper goods are supposed
to be, they're just gone.
What I didn't know Leisa
was whether individuals
would buy five baskets full
or whether 500 people bought
everything that was available.
I'm still not so sure.
What do you think it might be?
>>PETERSON: I think that
once toilet paper was
in scarce supply, people started
thinking about the things
that they depended on
and they just started
buying as much as they could.
So then you started seeing the
signs that said you can only
buy two of these, because--
>>NOORY: That's right.
They had to restrict you.
>>PETERSON: Yeah, they had to.
Because again this scarcity
mindset had kicked in
and it was dictating people's
purchasing decisions.
>>NOORY: Let's talk a
little bit about chakras.
What are chakras?
We've heard so many
things about Them
>>PETERSON: Yeah, chakras
are energy vortices
that are of light.
And there's hundreds of them.
I focus on this seven
primary chakras--
>>NOORY: That are in your body?
>>PETERSON: Yeah, they're
in your body, essentially.
They're energy centers.
You can't see them
on an X-ray machine.
>>NOORY: Where are
they on your body?
>>PETERSON: Yeah, so
they start at the root.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>PETERSON: So at the
base of your spine.
And then there's the belly,
the solar plexus, the heart,
the lower throat, the
brow, and the crown.
>>NOORY: Little points.
>>PETERSON: Yeah, energy points,
messaging centers, portals.
>>NOORY: Are they the same
for everybody, the spots?
>>PETERSON: Yes.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>PETERSON: Everyone has
them in the same center.
>>NOORY: And how
do you manage them?
What do you do with them?
>>PETERSON: So when you tune
in to the energy and you start
to learn about where
they're located, the color--
they all have a
color associated--
they actually become
message centers.
So first you have to
become familiar with what
are they going to say to you.
The root chakra is telling
you about security and safety.
It's the thing that has been
triggered by the toilet paper.
The belly, the sacral chakra is
around feelings and creativity.
The solar plexus, power.
The heart, love.
The throat, communication
and expression.
The brow is the integration
and the intuitive nature
that we have.
And the crown is the
connection to the divine.
>>NOORY: Are these things
that we can tap into?
How do you reach your chakra?
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
So what I do is I teach people
how to do what you're saying.
And it's using
mindfulness techniques.
Just like if you were to
meditate on something.
So you meditate on
these centers and start
to see them, see the light, see
the color, see the expression.
The root chakra is
very Earth oriented.
The sacral is water oriented.
So you tune in to
these energy centers.
And the cool thing about
having color and a property
is it gives the mind
something to hold on to.
But what's amazing
is as you start
to learn the properties
of what they represent,
they start to open up
portals of messages to us.
And that's where everything
becomes very, very interesting,
because most of us don't realize
that these message centers have
been waiting to talk to us.
>>NOORY: Are these research
centers physical or are they
nonphysical?
>>PETERSON: They're nonphysical
in that they are kind of--
I'm sure you've had people talk
about guides in the past years.
>>NOORY: Spirit guides.
>>PETERSON: Spirit guides.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>PETERSON: So I think
that would be the easiest
way to sort of think about
how spirit guides communicate
in different ways.
Some of us are very sensory.
We can feel it in our body.
Some of us see things.
When we close our
eyes, we see pictures.
Some of us hear things.
And I'm very auditory.
So I have clairaudient
is what they call that.
>>NOORY: You can
hear 200 miles away.
>>PETERSON: Yeah, I
hear things and I'm
guided through what I hear.
So for me when I tune
into the chakras,
I will most often
hear the messages
that want to come through.
And what that
would look like is,
let's say, with the
root chakra and you're
checking in to this red,
spinning disk of light energy.
And I know it represents
safety and security.
And so I'll ask it.
Am I actually feeling
safe in the moment?
And if I'm not, that voice
that comes, for me auditory,
for other people different
ways, will say, no or yes.
You are or you aren't.
And when you get
that answer, you're
able to start to dive
in deeper to say, well,
why am I so scared?
And if you think about the
times that we're in right now,
it's a very helpful
question to ask yourself.
Why do I feel so unsafe?
>>NOORY: Can your
chakras make you ill
if you don't handle
them properly?
>>PETERSON: So I think
it's more like they're
the message center telling
you that you have an issue.
>>NOORY: That something's wrong.
>>PETERSON: Yes.
So if you don't pay
attention to it,
I think, to me, from
what I've learned--
and I'll use my mom's situation.
My mom passed away
from ovarian cancer.
>>NOORY: Sorry to hear that.
>>PETERSON: And this
is in the sacral area.
And when I look back
at my mom's life,
I see a woman who was a
very feeling, centered
person who was constantly
denying her feelings.
And that is in the sacral area.
Someone who is like
the feelings are
so painful I don't
want to look at that.
And then she has ovarian cancer
that ultimately takes her life.
>>NOORY: Does this
happen to everybody?
Do we all have this ability
to tap into these chakras
and change our
physical situation?
>>PETERSON: Yes, yes.
We all have the ability.
>>NOORY: You're saying
this with a great smile.
This makes you
happy or something.
>>PETERSON: I am because I
think we have a lot of questions
and we don't have
the answers to them.
And I've found that every single
question, especially when we're
dealing with our body,
our health, our money,
our scarcity
patterns, all of that
can be found inside of ourselves
by tuning into the chakras.
>>NOORY: Well when you talk
about the trauma, of course
on the Gaia program "Healing
Matrix," with Dr. Sue Morter,
she talked with healer
Deborah King just about that.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- When trauma occurs, and it's
not dealt with in anything
more than a survival response--
because we're trying to--
- Survive.
- --survive, get through it.
After that we get down the
road having survived this.
But maybe we haven't
really dealt with it.
We haven't really healed.
We haven't really
come to terms with it.
And in that situation,
what forms of expression
do you see trauma showing
up inside of people
when they haven't dealt with
it on a healing tone level?
- Well the easiest one for
most people to grasp right off
the bat is their heart.
Because we can really feel
when we close our heart
we know we have.
We're like you know what?
I'm not going to feel that.
I'm never going to acknowledge
that my partner did
that to me, betrayed me
in that way, or my mother.
It could be anyone.
And we literally
close the chakra down,
which does not
allow any interplay.
Now if you look at
your base chakra
and compare that--
that's the one that's
at the base of your spine.
You're sitting on it right now.
And typical trauma there
would be an accident.
You're driving along
and suddenly you're
either in an accident or
you witnessed an accident,
either one can do it.
You can either can
even witness something
on television that's
terribly upsetting.
The whole nation's base chakra
was in upheaval at 9/11.
And we all watched that
on television for days.
And you can feel
your base chakra
when it goes out of whack
because you pull it up.
And unfortunately, we
disconnect from the earth
which is the thing
that's keeping us safe.
So now we feel less safe because
we've just cranked our base
chakra up way up here.
And so now we're walking around
and we know we don't feel safe.
And we need Mother
Earth connected to us
up through our feet and
up through our base chakra
to feel like we're going
to stay on the planet.
So that's a base chakra
typical trauma is an accident.
And another typical classical
one would be any shock,
any big surprise makes
us pull up and out.
- We unroot ourselves.
- Yes, we sure do.
- We pick up our roots
and head down the road.
- Run down the road.
Roots in hand.
- Right.
- Not good.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: That's an interesting
analogy about chakras,
isn't it?
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
>>NOORY: It puts a lot
of things perspective.
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
A lot of people
that come to my work
come because they have had a
lot of trauma in their lives.
And it's showing up in their
relationship with money,
yet they don't know
how to change it.
>>NOORY: So how would you
weigh, in terms of the scale,
what you do for people to help
them financial, primarily,
medical primarily?
Where does that sit?
>>PETERSON: I think financial
is the ultimate result
and the goal that
someone comes thinking,
hey, I need help with my money.
But when we get into
it, what we find
is that there are these trauma
bubbles that have literally
stored themselves
in those chakras.
And those are the things
that are causing them
the problem with the money.
But until we look
at those and we
help them heal those
aspects of the trauma,
they can't make
the kind of changes
that they want with the money.
So I look at it
kind of like I have
a lot of experience with
money and so it makes
people interested in my work.
But I also have a
lot of experience
in looking inside
and figuring out
how to move through
those traumatic points,
because I had a lot of them.
>>NOORY: Are you teaching
people how to make more money,
how to save money, how to
spend money, or all of it?
>>PETERSON: All of it.
It's all of it.
And actually each of
the things you said
falls into one of the
chakras, which is fascinating.
So different patterns relate
to different chakras about what
we're struggling with.
For example, saving money
or getting into debt
is in the sacral chakra.
And so the reason
that is, is that--
remember how I
said my mom didn't
feel into her experiences,
she didn't feel things?
Well, if you think
about debt, debt
is a classic example
of someone not wanting
to deal with the present
situation and kind of trying
to get what they want from
a satisfaction standpoint
right now but delay into
the future, like avoid.
And so there's an
avoidance of feeling.
And I see it over and
over again that people
who are struggling with debt
or not being able to save money
have a sacral chakra issue.
>>NOORY: I was always told,
Leisa, that debt is good.
There was a movie
where the experts
said dead tightens a company.
And there's another
theory of debt
is basically using other
people's money where you
don't have a touch your own.
What do you think of that?
>>PETERSON: So there's
two things going on.
One is there's people
who have basically
been conditioned to believe
that debt is acceptable.
And it doesn't matter that
you have a lot of debt.
Yet they are kind
of in a lot of pain,
because they worry about
that debt all the time.
That's completely
different than when
you reach a stage
where you're choosing
to use debt because it helps
you become a better investor,
right?
You buy a house with debt
and you create leverage.
So that helps you.
>>NOORY: If you can
support the payment.
>>PETERSON: Yes.
But you have to understand
that's a choice.
Like if you have a choice,
debt isn't a problem.
But when you don't have a choice
and you're living in debt,
and you think that's your whole
life story, that's a problem.
>>NOORY: Now back to the
chakras for a moment.
What's happening on the
planet right now with chakras?
How many people
are aware of these?
>>PETERSON: Becoming
a lot more--
>>NOORY: Really?
>>PETERSON: Yeah,
Popular, interesting.
People are asking a lot
of questions about them.
I think that people are
curious because they're
seeing it being written
about and discussed,
which is exciting.
The one thing I will say is that
some people look at the chakras
and they go to somebody to
get them to fix them, right?
So I go to somebody and they
balance my chakras for me.
I'm not a big fan of that.
I actually feel like
it's like if you
can learn how to
do it for yourself,
you're going to be in
a much better position.
So learning how to actually
manage, and look inside,
and tune up your
chakras on your own
is going to be way more
empowering than going
to somebody and
saying you fix me.
>>NOORY: Sure.
Are there ways for these
people to do this naturally
where they're not schooled,
they're not trained,
it just happens?
>>PETERSON: I think so.
I think a lot of people
are doing this already.
Maybe there's a certain
area in their body
that they pay a lot
of attention to.
I practiced Buddhism
for many years.
And one of the meditations
that we would do
would be taking and giving.
And that's a very heart
chakra centered practice.
So you wouldn't
realize necessarily
that you were working
on your heart chakra
when you did taking
and giving, which
is like breathing in suffering
and breathing out healing.
Or there's a lot of
different ways to do it.
But you're doing it
without much training.
So the difference
is is that when
you start to realize that there
are these messages that really
tell you the whole
story of your life
that are captured
in the chakras,
I think you start
realizing that you
could be working on
many different levels
at the same time.
>>NOORY: How come some people
can do it naturally and other
people can't?
>>PETERSON: Ah, great question.
>>NOORY: All my
questions are great.
We've got a great staff here.
>>PETERSON: So I
think it has a lot
to do with mindfulness for some.
For me I came to this from
meditation and looking within.
But I've met plenty of people
from their earliest memories
in life, they came
in and they were
deeply tuned in to what was
going on inside of them.
And it was just natural.
They didn't receive
any training for it.
>>NOORY: And little children,
do they have this ability, too?
>>PETERSON: Yeah, I think
that we do this naturally.
>>NOORY: Some more than others?
>>PETERSON: Yes, definitely.
I remember when I was a child
I would go into what now I
see is what's called
Samadhi I would
go into super deep
meditation practices.
When I had done something
wrong and I was in trouble,
I would go into a ball.
And I didn't recognize
what I was doing,
it was just a
natural part of me.
>>NOORY: Did you pout?
>>PETERSON: I think it was
like a form of escapism,
like I was upset at my family
for putting me in the corner.
>>NOORY: Nobody can see you
in this little ball, right?
>>PETERSON: Right.
But then later in life
when I started meditating
and I'd reach these really
deep stages of just seeing
everything, in
that moment I could
see that it was the exact same
situation of what I would go
into when I was a little kid.
>>NOORY: You have looked at
the power of forgiveness.
What is so important about that?
Because there are some
things I can forgive,
there are other things I cannot.
If somebody physically
harmed a member of my family,
I can't forgive that.
Now I could forgive someone
who is drunk, and gets
into a tragic accident, and
hurt somebody in my family.
I can forgive that,
because that's a sickness.
That's a mistake.
It wasn't I'm out
to hurt somebody.
But somebody who would blatantly
murder someone or harm someone,
I can't forgive that.
Now is that something
wrong with me?
Should I forgive that?
>>PETERSON: I don't
think that "should" is
the right word for anything.
But I will say that
in my own journey,
my father was brutally murdered.
And his ex-girlfriend
and her boyfriend
had conspired to buy a gun.
>>NOORY: Oh my god.
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
And it wasn't right
away, but after
years of exploring
forgiveness practice,
I came to the
realization that until I
reached a place of forgiveness
where I could have compassion
for them doing what they did--
>>NOORY: Why?
>>PETERSON: --I wasn't free.
>>NOORY: And so you're
telling me you forgave them?
>>PETERSON: Yes.
>>NOORY: Why?
>>PETERSON: Because I
was holding on to hatred.
And there was no
space inside of me
to hold on to the
hatred for them.
As I looked at my
own hatred, all I saw
was more pain and
suffering for myself.
And it's like it set me free.
Right?
That's the classic idea.
>>NOORY: But doesn't that
give them the feeling
as if it was OK?
>>PETERSON: No.
Because I think there's a
big difference between--
>>NOORY: Did they
go to jail for this?
>>PETERSON: They did.
They both went to jail,
very short sentences,
also kind of shocking.
But what happened
was it's not that I'm
condoning their behavior.
And I think that's
where maybe the snag is.
>>NOORY: Of course you're not.
>>PETERSON: No, no, it's
not that way at all.
But what I did do in my own
practice-- and each of us
have to go through this.
This is why you could never
tell somebody you just
need to forgive someone.
I think we have to go
inside of the experience.
And I'll add a little
feature to what was going on.
My father was estranged from
our family when he was killed.
And he had done a lot of things.
He was a lifelong drug user.
And he was very manipulative.
>>NOORY: So he was
going downhill.
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
And when he was
killed, and I started
trying to look at
what had happened,
I started to notice that there
had been these letters that
went back and forth between
him and the people who
had killed him.
And there was a story behind it.
Now it doesn't justify
or anything like that,
but I could see that my father's
behavior had most likely caused
them to be very
afraid for their life.
>>NOORY: Was that their
motivation, self defense?
>>PETERSON: Kind of.
>>NOORY: There wasn't some
insurance scam involved here
or anything like that?
>>PETERSON: No, nothing.
No.
But what I saw was that in the
end where it all came together
is that every single
person, even though it looks
different from the outside--
first of all, it
always looks different.
But when you go deep inside
of the human experience, what
we find is that everyone is
doing the best that they can.
And that there
have been a series
of events that have occurred--
whether it be sexual
trauma at a very young age
for someone, abuse,
or many things
that could have
happened to someone
that we don't have any
idea the story behind it.
And then they do an action.
And we say you're
a horrible person.
But we don't know
all of the reasons
why they do what they
do in that moment.
And when I could
see that for myself,
I could see it for
my father's killers.
I could see it for other
people that I would easily
say they're bad people,
and I just don't like them.
But after a while of
questioning this way
of just saying, I can't
forgive and looking inside
and saying, if I make mistakes--
I mean, granted not
that kind of mistake--
but if I make mistakes
and I can't forgive myself
for those mistakes,
then I definitely
can't forgive other people.
So I started learning
how to forgive myself
for all kinds of
stuff that I've done.
>>NOORY: I want you
to see a portion
of "Open Minds with
Regina Meredith"
where she talked with Dr.
James Hardt about the science
behind forgiveness.
Let's see if you agree with him.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Can you talk a little bit more
about the forgiveness process?
- Sure.
Give you a little background.
Everybody in America has
heard of the Gallup Poll.
For a long time before the death
of Sir John Templeton, a very
spiritual man and a good friend
of George Gallup, every couple
of years Sir John
would get George
to do a poll on forgiveness.
Well one time I had a chance
to read one of the details.
And in rating the
importance of forgiveness
from zero, not at
all, up to four,
extremely, 80% of Americans
said they considered forgiveness
extremely important,
80% then of those
who considered it extremely
important, George Gallup asked,
well, can you do it?
85% said no.
Even God's help was not
effective in producing
what we call effective
forgiveness for most people.
85% said they could not do it.
Of the things that
Gallup asked about,
there was only one thing
that was correlated
with effective forgiveness.
And that was meditative prayer.
Well when you take
meditative as an adverb
and put it in front of a
verb, like meditative fishing,
meditative gardening, meditative
sewing, meditative reading,
what I see are more alpha waves.
And so in a sense,
George Gallup has
revealed that effective
forgiveness requires
more alpha waves.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: So what do you
think of that, Leisa?
>>PETERSON: I love it.
>>NOORY: I want you
to give me a test.
>>PETERSON: Yeah?
>>NOORY: Give me a
test on forgiveness.
Throw things my way
and ask me if I would
forgive that special thing.
>>PETERSON: OK.
Are you married?
>>NOORY: Maybe.
I never discuss
my personal life.
>>PETERSON: OK.
So I'm just supposed to-- so
if your wife cheated on you,
would you forgive her?
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>PETERSON: Would you
forgive the person
who she was also with?
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>PETERSON: OK.
That was a hard one.
So you already did a hard one.
>>NOORY: If I were married.
>>PETERSON: OK.
If a drunk driver
killed a child.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>PETERSON: Yes.
>>NOORY: Now I want
to qualify this.
It's not easy.
>>PETERSON: I understand.
>>NOORY: OK?
But based on those scenarios
you've just mentioned, yes.
Throw a few more my way.
>>PETERSON: If a financial
advisor stole all your money.
>>NOORY: I probably
would eventually
forgive somebody for that.
I'd want to find out
why he did what he did.
Was he in some financial mess?
Was he in trouble, you know?
Something like that.
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
A good friend lied to you
about something important.
>>NOORY: I'd be disappointed,
but I'd forgive them.
So there's a lot of
things I'd forgive.
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
>>NOORY: You haven't asked
me about the murderer.
>>PETERSON: So the
murderer in the case of I
mean what happened in my family.
So if someone
murdered your parent?
>>NOORY: It depends, I guess,
on the motive behind it.
Just based on that
question, no, I
would not forgive them for that.
I'd want them to fry in
hell for what they did.
I'd want them to get the
electric chair for what
they did.
But we don't know, for example--
and don't take this
the wrong way--
if your father was
doing things to them and
they saw this as
self-protection.
>>PETERSON: Totally.
>>NOORY: We don't know that.
>>PETERSON: Yes.
>>NOORY: And that
could be a reason
why they didn't get
a lot of sentencing
when they got convicted.
>>PETERSON: Yes.
I'm most sure that
that's the case.
>>NOORY: But I would forgive--
unlike the 85% who
said they could not
forgive in that study--
I would forgive most
episodes in time,
maybe not immediately,
but in time,
other than the clear cut
guy who broke into a house
and murdered your family
or something like that
in cold blood.
I couldn't forgive that.
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Truman Capote, when
he wrote the book "Cold Blood,"
talked with the two murderers
who broke into that house
and killed the family
for several years
before he wrote the book as
he was doing his research.
He began to like them.
He began to understand them.
And to me there's
no excuse for that.
None.
>>PETERSON: No excuse
for what they did.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
You can't forgive them.
But some people can.
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
You know I like the
video where he said
"the meditative forgiveness."
This idea that we look within.
We ask the questions.
I think that most of the
time it's like nobody's
going to fault me for not
forgiving the people who
killed my father.
>>NOORY: That's an
individual thing.
>>PETERSON: Yes.
>>NOORY: It's you.
>>PETERSON: It's me.
It was me realizing that
that wasn't serving me
and that I didn't want to
live in hatred and anger.
>>NOORY: Does forgiveness
give you closure?
>>PETERSON: Very much so.
I don't think I
could have closed
the door on that
chapter of my life
and feel like I could talk
about it here like we're
talking about it had
I not done that work.
>>NOORY: Could you
forgive a woman
who stole a child
from another family,
kidnapped them, and raised
them, loved the child,
but literally stole the kid?
Could you forgive that person?
>>PETERSON: Just like you, it
would take me a lot of time.
Like it is not an
instant thing for me.
I would look inside of it.
I'd want to know
more if I could.
If I couldn't I
would try to find--
knowing that someone who
had made a bad decision
but then lived in love and
cherished these children
as if they were
her own, that would
help me to find some
place inside of myself
that I could be
at peace with it.
But again I think that it's
like more than anything,
we live our lives oftentimes
in great suffering
without realizing all
the things that we're
holding on to that we haven't
looked deeply inside of
and let go of.
And many times when people come
to me about money, oftentimes
there's sexual abuse from a
very young age from a parent.
I mean these stories
are horrific.
And I don't tell anyone
that they need to forgive.
I allow them to see
what they want to see.
And there have been times--
recently, I had one client
who had been sexually abused
by his father and
hadn't spoken to him
for a very long
time as a result.
And we did the work together.
And he looked inside
of the relationship
and came to a place of
forgiveness to his father
and went back and
reacquainted with his father
to find out that after that
conversation within six months
his father had passed away.
And he was like, I am so
glad because I got closure
to this horrifying thing
that had dictated my life.
And I'm free of it now.
And that was what
he needed to do.
But it isn't maybe
the same for everyone.
It's just what he
needed for peace.
>>NOORY: Interesting
take on that.
So how do you equate this
to your wealth clinic?
How do you put
this all together?
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
So what I found is that when
people do just what we talked
about, and they tune
in to the chakras,
they tune in to the messages
that are coming through,
and they forgive,
they let go, they
become mindful particularly
of habits, and traits,
and patterns that they
do over and over again.
In the end, I start to
notice significant changes
in people's lives where they
couldn't save any money.
And all of a sudden, now
they're easily saving money.
And they didn't even
have to do anything big.
They just had to change
the way that they
were thinking about
saving money, feeling
about saving money.
And now they're saving
money with no struggle.
>>NOORY: That's interesting.
And it works for
people, doesn't it?
>>PETERSON: It does.
>>NOORY: Do you recommend
that people save, save, save
or what?
>>PETERSON: I recommend that
people know their goals.
They know what they
want to create.
If they've got really
big goals, then they're
going to need to save more
money to achieve that.
If they've got little, teeny
goals, maybe one of the goals
is just knowing that
they have the ability
to save money when they
are wanting something.
It's very different for
every single person.
That's kind of why I also
think the financial services
industry is sort
of telling us we
all should want the same thing.
But some people can be really
happy with very little.
Some people want a lot more.
>>NOORY: While some people
who are multibillionaires
want more.
>>PETERSON: Yes.
>>NOORY: I mean why
do you want more
when you have all you need?
>>PETERSON: Right.
>>NOORY: I don't get it.
>>PETERSON: There's a lot
of studies about this where
you ask millionaires
on a scale of 0 to 10,
if you had more
money, would you be?
And these millionaires
are like it's always
something out there.
It's never the moment right
now, how much they have.
It's always I need
more to be happier.
>>NOORY: What about people who
latch on to people with money
to try to get money from them?
>>PETERSON: Yeah, that's
it's a creative way to go.
Let's feel into that.
That's actually a
heart chakra thing.
It's a feeling that I
don't have the ability--
>>NOORY: I mean, if it works for
them, it works for them, right?
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
Well it's like they don't feel
like they have the ability
to create it for themselves.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
On the Gaia program
"Rewired," Dr. Joe Dispenza
talks about changing
your thought patterns
to avoid some of that.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- The process of
change is breaking
the habit of the old self
and reinventing the new self.
It's pruning
synaptic connections
and sprouting new connections.
So it makes sense, then, if
you are going to transition
from the old self
to the new self
and you decide what thoughts
do I want to fire and wire
in my brain, and you begin
to put all of your energy
in installing those thoughts
neurologically in your brain,
the act of firing and wiring
over and over again begins
to assemble new
neurological networks.
Now neural networks
are gangs of neurons
that have been fired
and wired together
that relate to a thought,
a memory, a behavior.
The body begins to
assemble new circuits
so it becomes more automatic.
So it makes sense, then, if
you keep firing and wiring
those thoughts and
they begin to assemble
into automatic
neurological networks,
and you do it over
and over again,
those thoughts
are going to begin
to become familiar to you.
Then the thought in your
mind literally becomes
the experience.
And experience
enriches the brain.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: What do
you think of that?
>>PETERSON: I like it.
It's true.
>>NOORY: It's spot on, isn't he?
>>PETERSON: It is.
Because if scarcity is the way
that you're looking at life,
changes to a prosperity
mindset and abundance mindset,
everything that
he's saying, is what
starts to dictate how
you look at the world.
>>NOORY: How can we
rewire ourselves,
like Dr. Joe was talking
about, to change our lives?
>>PETERSON: So I
think it's first
starting in the idea of hope
that whatever is going on
in your life right now,
wherever you find yourself,
it's really important that you
not only want something more
but believe there's a
seed of potential for you.
And once you have
that, what I have found
is it creates a gap
in your consciousness.
Like this is where I want to go,
and this is where I am today.
And it's amazing,
because I think
this is where
synchronicity comes in.
This is where you just happen
to be watching this conversation
today, between George and Leisa,
and you're like, wait a minute,
I'm ready for this.
You become open.
And in the openness, we
become available to receive
teachings that help us
change what's going on.
Maybe it's chakras.
Maybe it's Akashic records.
Maybe it's astrology.
We become open to
learning what messages
could help me start to make
things different in my life
going forward.
I just think that
people, the more they
realize that when you change
what these thoughts are
and these feelings
about who you are
and how much there
is out there, then
you have the ability to
create what you want next.
>>NOORY: I was in Vegas a
couple months ago, Leisa,
and I was sitting at
a blackjack table.
And there was like
four people there.
And a couple of
guys at the corner,
who did not know each
other, were talking.
And one guy had a stack
of chips in front of him.
I mean, he must have been
spending thousands of dollars.
Then another guy had a
smaller, little stack
betting at a very nominal rate.
And they were just talking.
And the guy with
the stack of chips
was bragging about
he had a Bentley
and lived in this big house
in Los Angeles and all that.
And the other guy who had
a little pile of chips,
who seemed happier, talked
about his little Honda Accord
which he paid for, a little
apartment that he was renting.
And I looked at the two and
I'm saying the other guy's
braggadocios talking about
all these possessions,
but he's not happy.
But the other guy who doesn't
have nearly half as much
as what he has, he's happy.
It's something that
falls within, doesn't it?
>>PETERSON: Most definitely.
And I had to go the whole
gamut, I want to be honest.
I thought that if I
had a lot of money,
it would bring a great deal
of happiness into my life.
And my husband and I became
millionaires in our mid 30s
and we worked really
hard to get there.
But the thing that kind
of shocked me is we
were there and
instead of worrying
about not having
enough money, now
we were worried about losing it.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>PETERSON: It just
changed, but it didn't
matter how much money we had.
>>NOORY: What is
the one thing you
want to leave this show with
for people to understand?
>>PETERSON: That they
have limitless potential
to create the things
that they want.
And that no matter what is
going on in their minds, what's
going on in the outer world,
they have that ability.
And just lean into it
just a little more,
because I promise the
potential will expand
as you give it attention.
>>NOORY: It's
within us, isn't it?
>>PETERSON: Yes.
>>NOORY: Thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>PETERSON: Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: Well there you
heard it from an expert.
Fascinating.
It's within ourselves to
tap into our own potential.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]